Remarks:

In the following, IFS means ECMWF and Meteo France common source code.
The various versions of this source code are called 'cycles' (various versions).
When compiled, a set of binaries (main and side) are produced.
At Meteo France, they are referred to as 'packs'.

Mitraillette:

Tool for building, running and checking various configurations of IFS cycles.
It consists in IFS jobs being built, then run (optionally) and finally,
if desired, compared to results from a reference cycle.

Installation:

Source code is installed via Makefile. Just run make in the source directory.
Installation sets the main Mitraillette's script mitraillette.sh in ~/bin and
copies directory config in directory ~/proc/mitraille (dynamically created).
Just add ~/bin to your PATH to run the script.

Overview:

Mitraillette's script needs a simple resource file indicating various paths to
input files (analyses, climatology, constants, forcing/coupling files).
It also needs paths to other resources: IFS binaries and some utilities. All
these other resources must be found in the user's environment.
Mitraillette builds, runs and checks a predefined set of NWP configurations.
Only building is activated by default. Other actions are controlled by
command line arguments.
Building a given configuration must comply with the following:
- the configuration name must be known to Mitraillette: these names all lie in
file config/profil_table.
- for the given cycle tag (like cy46t1_main.01), the set of input namelists files
must lie in the cycle's user directory (.../cy46t1_main.01/)
- namelists files are placed in cycle's subdirectories namelist, selnam, fpnam,
etc.
- a few other files (reference tables, in config/) contain information for all
the configurations, among which the one to be tested. These files and the conf
list (profil_table) can be overridden from config by the cycle's directory.

Environment:

Mitraillette needs access to some tools, depending on the configuration(s) to be
tested. Those tools are io_poll and lfi_move, which are wrappers of some IFS
binaries. They must be known to variable PATH. Another wrapper, mpiauto, is used
for parallel executions of IFS binaries and has also to be accessible by the
environment.

Batch jobs and environment:

Mitraillette configuration jobs are run in batch (by SLURM). A few environment
variables must exist and must be set in the shell environment. In addition to
the variable PATH (already mentioned), variables to set are those in file
config/IFSenv.txt. A final setting is to unlimit the stask size: set 'ulimit -s
unlimited' in the environment.

For all these variables, the user can set them in 2 ways:
- either in the current environment, without the '-noenv' option
- either in the default environment (.profile), with the '-noenv' option
These options exclude each other, except that very often, current environment is
just the default one.
